Hello and welcome to Unit Testing for unity.
We're going to be looking at my data loader in advanced version here.
To see this demo in action we're going to open up unity Download and use the Source sample project for
this course.
And we'll take a look at a key scene here.
That is the My Data loader advanced.
Some of the concepts I'm going to talk about here include dependency injection as we see and end substitute.
Here we are inside unity I've got this scene for the My Data loader advanced ready and ready to go here.
So we'll go ahead and run that scene for quite a lot of these scenes in the workshop.
Running the production scene is not the interesting thing, but I always encourage you to do it just
as a starting point.
So here we see simple console log that says length of the data loaded is this.
That value is not too important, but you can dig into that example class if you want to take a look
at it.
Let's run the test for it.
So up here I've got my category set to my data loader advanced.
So we're only seeing the test related to that and only in edit mode.
There's also a play mode test you can take a look at on your own time, but I think that the edit mode
is more interesting here.
So I will do run all.
And here we see we've got two tests and they both pass with a green check, which is great.
Let's look at both the load async and the mock load async and take a look at how they work.
So here we are in the sample code.
If you followed along from the last video and I hope you do, we went over the method that we're looking
at here, which uses an actual call to a web server, loads the data back and checks the value of it.
This closely resembles what the production use case would it be?
But we've talked about some of the problems there.
Am I testing my code or am I testing Unity Web Service underneath it?
My testing that?
Or am I testing the back end of github.com?
And if it's a stable server, you want to focus your tests on your own custom code and have as least
and fewest dependencies as possible.
So there's some problems with this.
The first thing that I did when I went about this is to think about dependency injection.
Let's say that in production I want to have one way that I call this and that it is implemented, that
is using Unity web service.
Then for testing, maybe I want to have a second way that I want to approach it.
Now, you could have a flag in your code base that says something like is debug equals true or is production
equals false?
And in your production code do certain things in test mode and certain things not.
I see a lot of that happen in code bases, but that's generally not a good practice.
You're polluting your production code with really stuff that's only for tests, so it's not as appropriate.
This is a better solution here.
Let's take a look at what we do well.
In the previous basic example, I did not have a concept of a network service, nor did I pass it in
here.
We just created it and it always worked one way.
But the dependency injection here is that I decide.
Here's some custom way that this could work.
Here's some of the logic that I could swap out in a few different ways.
I declare it here in one line, and then I pass it in.
So you could imagine having several different network services.
I could have one that's just for testing, one that's just for production, one that just writes to
a local disk, one that is appropriate for a particular backend server.
ET cetera.
This has production use cases as well.
This idea of dependency injection.
Now why do we call it dependency injection.
It's because instead of my data loader advanced always doing one thing, I pass in some info that decides
how it's going to operate.
So rather than the class itself knowing everything here, I'm passing in a dependency in this case to
the Unity Web Request Network service.
So let's take a look at how that's structured, and then we'll see why it is helpful for us as we do
our testing.
So here's the complete source code for the My Data loader advanced.
Now two things I want to focus on here.
One is that in its constructor I pass in that dependency.
Now dependency injection and how to create flexible classes from this concept of dependency injection
are really outside of the scope of this class.
It's a really good thing for you to go and look at.
You could google something like D I for unity or dependency injection for unity, or even dependency
injection in object oriented programming, and see some more of those general concepts.
But assuming you have somewhat of a familiarity, especially given my my explanation, I just gave there,
let's move forward with it.
Now that I'm passing in that as a dependency here and storing it, then any time I call our core functionality
of load async, what I do is I say, okay, when I'm ready to load async, just tell my network service
to load async.
Now you can imagine if I've passed in a network service that does a load async for a back end server
of a particular technology.
This line here would do that.
That if I passed in something else that did a writing to disk or reading from disk as a different type
of network service, this is the line here that would really change.
So I don't have to have 2 or 3 different versions of the my data loader advanced here.
Instead, I pass in a custom implementation that handles that particular detail in a unique way.
It's a very powerful way for you to have your code be more flexible.
Now, now that we've talked about passing in a dependency and how it is able to wrap the functionality
here, let's look at what the source for this particular one is.
So up here in the same class file I've got a couple things to talk about.
One, I created an interface.
This interface here of I network service declares okay, anybody who wants to be considered as a viable
dependency to be passed in here has to have some method or methods available.
And in this case, it just needs to have the load async and take a string URL.
That's it.
Now if you're not too familiar with with interfaces.
Please go check out interfaces.
You could look at something like interfaces versus classes in C-sharp or in unity, and you'll see lots
of examples.
But an important distinction here is that the interface defines what the public API is, but it doesn't
worry about doing the implementation.
The implementation is declared down here in a public class.
Now classes you're probably more familiar with.
And what we do here is we implement a particular flavor of that.
I network service in this particular flavor should look very familiar to you from the previous video.
This is the exact same implementation.
We're just using unity web request and then doing its send web request methodology.
So now that we've looked at the source code coming back here, we can see, okay, we're just creating
a custom class that handles a little bit of the functionality.
And we pass that custom class in there.
But we now have a my data loader advanced class that is much more flexible.
Now, why specifically in the world of testing, is dependency injection relevant?
Well, we have a wonderful utility that we can use inside unity for our unit testing.
This is a library called N substitute and it's been included here in the sample project.
Let's take a look at another test method just below the other one.
And this is going to use what is called a mock of a class.
So here we have a very similar creation of the My Data loader advanced.
And instead of passing in the unity web request version, we're going to do something that looks quite
odd here.
We're going to use substitute library.
And what we're going to do here is we're going to say hey on the fly in these two lines, go create
me a class that can handle just the functionality I need.
But because it's a mock class, it doesn't necessarily have to actually go call the server.
What it's going to do instead is, at key moments, return a predictable value to us.
Now remember, our flow here is that the test tells the data loader to go load a URL inside the data
loader tells the network service to go load a URL.
That last step, the end result is it takes a half a second, goes and loads from the server and returns
a string back.
So all I really need in a mock situation is okay, don't even call a server.
Just when I call this you give me a string back.
So I'm saying here with this language that I want any time I call load async and I pass in any string
for the URL, then return the word mocked data.
Then down here, I could make sure that I'm getting the expected result that I want, instead of checking
that it has doctype in the return as I did previously.
I can check for the mock data here.
So what we're seeing here is a very simple example, and it might not seem useful, but imagine in a
more complex example where we weren't just loading data, we were loading it, reading, writing, transforming
the data, doing quite a bit, maybe a 5 or 6 different methods.
All of them could be pointing to wildly different systems, but when we really want to test just the
data loader, then we want to pass in mocked abilities for those other systems to be just kind of temporarily
ignored so we can focus on just what we have at hand here.
Now let's take a look at what would happen.
So I call the load async.
What's going to happen is this system inside is going to return the predicted value.
And the data loader is then going to call loaded.
And it's going to have its result value be the value that we expect it to be.
So let's run this inside the unity editor.
So we'll hit run all here.
And it works quite quickly.
Let's even compare if I just run load async which is actually calling a server.
It was quick.
Then if I call mock load async which is not calling any server.
May not be evident from the video, but it's much faster to call the MOC.
And that makes sense because we're not actually calling a server and waiting for a result.
So this isn't just to save us a few seconds.
It's again for us to focus as we're designing our tests.
What actually do we want to test?
And then we want to isolate it.
So we're not actually testing a Unity Web Services class.
We're not testing a GitHub back end.
Testing several systems together is called an integration test.
That is an appropriate type of test.
But it's outside of what we're talking about here, which is unit testing.
Again, getting down to as few dependencies as possible, few lines of code.
You could think about it.
So that's it there we've looked at how to use the substitute library and how also we can do a mock for
a call to the back end server.
So thanks.